Best Cream Of Broccoli Soup Ingredients
Here's what you'll need to make the best cream of broccoli soup ever:

Butter
You'll use butter twice in this recipe. Once to sauté the onions and celery (butter adds rich flavor to sautéed vegetables) and again at the end to make a roux.

Onions and Celery
Like so many great soups, this recipe starts with onions and celery. These veggies add complexity and depth of flavor.

Broth
Chicken broth is the liquid base for this cream of broccoli soup. For a vegetarian option, substitute vegetable broth.

Broccoli
You can't have cream of broccoli soup without broccoli! Choose dark green broccoli with firm stems.

Flour, Milk, and Butter
All-purpose flour, milk, and the rest of the butter are cooked together to create a roux. When added to the soup, it creates a thick and velvety texture that's impossible to resist.

Pepper
Ground black pepper is the perfect finishing touch. Add other spices and seasonings to taste.

How to Make Cream of Broccoli Soup
You can make this cream of broccoli soup recipe in about a half an hour, so it's the perfect choice for busy weeknights. You'll find the full recipe below, but here's a brief overview of what you can expect:

Cook the Vegetables
Sauté the onions and celery in butter until they're tender. Add the broccoli florets and the chicken broth, cover the pot, and simmer for about 10 minutes.

Blend the Ingredients
You can use a countertop blender or an immersion blender to purée the soup. Give it a few quick pulses, then blend continuously until the soup is totally smooth.

Thicken the Soup
Melt a few tablespoons of butter in a separate saucepan. Stir in the flour, then the milk. Cook the milk mixture until it's thick and bubbly, then add it to the soup. Finish it off with a dash of pepper (and the other seasonings of your choosing).

How to Store Cream of Broccoli Soup
You'll need to refrigerate this soup within two hours of cooking. Let it cool to room temperature, then transfer it to an airtight container and store in the refrigerator for three to four days.

Can You Freeze Cream of Broccoli Soup?
Yes! You can absolutely freeze cream of broccoli soup — and you should if you plan to keep it for more than a few days.

Ladle the soup in serving-sized portions into zip-top freezer bags. Label the bags with the date, lay them flat in the freezer, and freeze for up to two to three months.

Allrecipes Community Tips and Praise
"Delicious and buttery," raves LoriT. "I used skim milk and it was great. Like some of the other reviews, I scooped out about a ladle of the cooked broccoli and did not puree it. Adding it back to the pureed mixture gave the soup a more hearty texture."

"This is the ultimate comfort food," according to misscarolb. "It's so simple to throw together and takes almost no time at all. I feel so great eating things that aren't full of processed ingredients, and I definitely can't wait to harvest my own vegetables this summer and make this again. This one is going straight in the recipe book."

"I make this soup a couple times a month, with the intention of freezing it for later use," says Julia Courtney. "The problem is ... we always eat it all! I drizzle mine with olive oil and sprinkle with fresh grated Parmesan cheese! SO good!"

Editorial contributions by Corey Williams

Ingredients
5 tablespoons butter, divided

1 onion, chopped

1 stalk celery, chopped

3 cups chicken broth

8 cups broccoli florets

3 tablespoons all-purpose flour

2 cups milk

ground black pepper to taste

Local Offers
00000 Change
Oops! We cannot find any ingredients on sale near you. Do we have the correct zip code?
ADVERTISEMENT
Directions
Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a medium stock pot over medium heat. Saute onion and celery until tender. Add broccoli and broth, cover, and simmer for 10 minutes.

Pour the soup into a blender, filling the pitcher no more than halfway full. Hold down the lid of the blender with a folded kitchen towel, and carefully start the blender, using a few quick pulses to get the soup moving before leaving it on to puree. Puree in batches until smooth and pour into a clean pot. Alternately, you can use an immersion blender and puree the soup right in the cooking pot.

Melt 3 tablespoons butter in a small saucepan over medium to medium-low heat; stir in flour and add milk. Stir until thick and bubbly, and add to soup. Season with pepper and serve.